#course/aws/developer-associate 

In this lesson, we're going to create a global table in a different region for the existing table we have in DynamoDB. So that means we're going to have a replicated synchronized copy of our table in another region and we'll be able to make changes to the table in either region, and those will be synchronized. 

So back in DynamoDB, I'm looking at my table which is my store. And if I go across to global tables, here I can quite simply create a replica. So what I need to do is choose a different region. So my current region is US East, so maybe I choose US West. So now I have a replica of my table in Northern California. And you can see it's going to use a service-linked role for the replication. So we don't need to modify anything there. We just create the replica. Now it says that DynamoDB streams will be enabled automatically for new and old images. So we'll go and have a look at the config of that in a moment. Now, creation of a global table can take several minutes. So don't worry if it takes a little while to synchronize. So it's been maybe 15 minutes and my table is now active and the replication should have completed. So what I'm gonna do is head over to US West where my other table is. And we can see that we also have that table active here as well. So we now have two tables. Now, there's lots that you can do if you want to play around and test this out. So for example, you might want to come in here, create new items or add attributes or modify attributes for your existing items and then watch how it replicates. So you'll see that it replicates both ways. This is multi-master. So we can now make changes to the table, both in North California and in US East. So I'm finished with this lesson. So what I'm gonna do is just go back and I'm going to delete my table. So what you can do is come back to your table in North Virginia, update settings. Under global tables, you can click on your replica and delete the replica. And then once that's deleted you can just go and delete your table as normal.